{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}}
\fs24
\b HMNP Google Ads API Tool — Design Document\b0\par
\par
\b 1) Overview\b0\par
Houston Mobile Notary Pros (HMNP) will use the Google Ads API to programmatically create and manage Search campaigns that drive bookings and leads to our website. The tool runs from a secured Ubuntu environment using official Google client libraries.\par
\par
\b 2) Users and Access\b0\par
- Internal use only by HMNP staff/contractors with Ads admin access.\par
- No external/public access.\par
\par
\b 3) Capabilities\b0\par
- Campaign build: budgets, Search campaigns, ad groups, keywords/negatives, Responsive Search Ads, geo targets (cities/radius), schedules, bidding strategies.\par
- Campaign management: enable/pause, add/remove keywords/ads, adjust budgets/bids, add audiences and assets (as supported).\par
- Reporting: pull performance metrics (impressions, clicks, cost, conversions) to CSV for analysis.\par
- Conversions: create website conversion actions; client-side firing via Google Tag Manager; optional server events via GA4 Measurement Protocol; offline conversion uploads if needed.\par
- Customer lists: optional Customer Match uploads (hashed first-party data) if enabled and compliant.\par
- Automation: execute scripts via cron/CI for keyword mining, budget shifts, and scheduled reporting.\par
\par
\b 4) High-Level Architecture & Data Flow\b0\par
- Operator runs Python scripts on Ubuntu.\par
- Scripts authenticate to Google Ads API using OAuth2 (desktop app) and a developer token.\par
- Configuration is provided via google-ads.yaml (developer_token, login_customer_id, client credentials, refresh token).\par
- Build flow: create/find shared budget → create/find Search campaign (Maximize Conversions) → set geo targeting (city includes or radius from ZIP) → create ad groups → add keywords & negatives → create RSAs.\par
- Conversions: website events fire via GTM (Google Ads conversion tag) on booking success; optional server events via GA4 MP and Ads import.\par
- Reporting: API pulls to CSV for BI/Looker Studio.\par
\par
\b 5) Authentication & Authorization\b0\par
- OAuth2 user credentials (Desktop application) with scope “adwords”.\par
- Refresh token stored securely in environment/secret manager on the operator machine; not embedded in code.\par
- Developer token bound to MCC; requests specify login_customer_id and target customer account.\par
\par
\b 6) Privacy, Data Handling, and Compliance\b0\par
- No collection of sensitive categories; adheres to Google Ads policies.\par
- PII is not persisted by the tool. If Enhanced Conversions or Customer Match are used, data is hashed per Google’s requirements and transmitted only to Google services.\par
- Honors website consent; tags are deployed via GTM where Consent Mode can be enforced.\par
- Access limited to internal staff/contractors under confidentiality.\par
\par
\b 7) Error Handling, Quotas, and Retries\b0\par
- Uses official client library backoff for rate limits and transient errors.\par
- Validates resource existence (idempotent upserts) to avoid duplicates.\par
- Logs errors and surfaces actionable messages for remediation.\par
\par
\b 8) Monitoring & Support\b0\par
- Routine checks via Ads reporting (spend, clicks, conversions).\par
- Tag validation with GTM Preview/Tag Assistant and Google Ads conversion diagnostics.\par
- Contact: houstonmobilenotarypros@gmail.com.\par
\par
\b 9) Security\b0\par
- Credentials kept out of source control; environment variables and local secret files with restricted permissions.\par
- Principle of least privilege for Ads and Cloud project roles.\par
\par
\b 10) Roadmap\b0\par
- Automated search term mining → exact/negative expansion.\par
- Budget pacing and daypart bid adjustments.\par
- Optional Customer Match & audience layering; optional GTM Server‑Side.\par
}
